One of the downsides of partitioning is that the system administrator has to decide beforehand how the available disk space on a device will be distributed.

This can present some challenges later, if a partition requires more space than originally planned. **Of course partitions can be resized, but this may not be possible if, for example, there is no free space on the disk**.

**Logical Volume Management (LVM):** is a form of storage virtualization that offers system administrators a more flexible approach to managing disk space than traditional partitioning

**goal:** facilitate managing the storage needs of your end users.

**Physical Volume (PV):** The basic unit which is a **block device on your system** like a **disk partition** or a **RAID array**.

**Volume Groups (VG):** PVs are grouped into it which **abstract the underlying devices** and are **seen as a single logical device**.


Each volume in a Volume Group is **subdivided into fixed-sized** pieces called **extents**.

Extents on a PV are called **Physical Extents (PE)**

while those on a Logical **Volume are Logical Extents (LE)**

**each Logical Extent is mapped to a Physical Extent**, but this can change if features like **disk mirroring** are used.

**Logical Volumes (LVs):** The subdivides of VGs are called logical volumes which functionally **work in a similar way to partitions** but with more flexibility.


**The size of a Logical Volume**, as specified during its creation, is in fact defined by the **size of the physical extents (4 MB by default) multiplied by the number of extents on the volume**.

From this it is easy to understand that to grow a Logical Volume, for example, all that the system administrator has to do is add more extents from the pool available in the Volume Group. Likewise, extents can be removed to shrink the LV.

After a Logical Volume is created it is **seen by the operating system as a normal block device**.

A device will be created in `/dev`, named as `/dev/VGNAME/LVNAME`, where `VGNAME` is the name of the **Volume Group**, and `LVNAME` is the name of the **Logical Volume**.

These devices can be formatted with a desired filesystem using standard utilities (like `mkfs.ext4`, for example) and mounted using the usual methods, either manually with the `mount` command or automatically by adding them to the `/etc/fstab` file.


