software libraries are collections of code that are intended to be used by many different programs just as physical libraries keep books and other resources to be used by many different people.


To build an executable file from a program’s source code, **two important steps are necessary**:
1. The compiler turns the source code into machine code that is stored in so-called object files. 
2. The linker **combines** the **object files** and **links them to libraries** in order to generate the final executable file.

This linking can be done **statically** or **dynamically**.


Depending on which method we go for, we will be talking about **static libraries** or, in case of **dynamic linking**, about **shared libraries**. Let us explain their differences.

### Static libraries
A static library is **merged with the program at link time**. **A copy of the library code is embedded into the program and becomes part of it**. Thus, the program **has no dependencies on the library at run time** because the program **already contains the libraries code**. **Having no dependencies can be seen as an advantage since you do not have to worry about making sure the used libraries are always available**. On the **downside**, **statically linked programs are heavier**.


### Shared (or dynamic) libraries
In the case of shared libraries, the linker simply takes care that the program references libraries correctly. The linker does, however, not copy any library code into the program file. At run time, though, the shared library must be available to satisfy the program’s dependencies. This is an economical approach to managing system resources as it helps reduce the size of program files and only one copy of the library is loaded in memory, even when it is used by multiple programs.


