The default configuration file for GRUB 2 is `/boot/grub/grub.cfg`. This file is **automatically generated** and **manual editing is not recommended**. To make changes to the GRUB configuration, you need to edit the file `/etc/default/grub` and then run the `update-grub` utility **to generate a
compliant file**.

`update-grub` is usually a shortcut to `grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`, so they produce the same results.

**Options in `/etc/default/grub` for controlling the behaviour of GRUB2:**
1. `GRUB_DEFAULT=` default menu entry to boot. can be numeric and name or `saved` which is used in conjunction with `GRUB_SAVEDEFAULT=` explained below.
2. `GRUB_SAVEDEFAULT=` If this option is **set to** `true` and GRUB_DEFAULT= is **set to** `saved`, then the default boot option will always be the **last one selected** in the boot menu.
3. `GRUB_TIMEOUT=` The timeout, in seconds, **before the default menu entry is selected**. if `0` system will boot the default entry without showing a menu. If set to `-1` the system will wait until the user selects an option, no matter how long it takes.
4. `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX=` This lists command line options that will be added to entries for the Linux kernel.
5. `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT=` By default, **two menu entries** are generated for each Linux kernel, one with the **default options** and one entry for **recovery**. **With this option you can add extra parameters that will be added only to the default entry**.
6. `GRUB_ENABLE_CRYPTODISK=` If set to `y`, commands like `grub-mkconfig`, `update-grub` and `grub-install` will **look for encrypted disks** and **add the commands needed to access them during boot**.  This **disables automatic booting** (`GRUB_TIMEOUT=` with any value other than `-1`) because a passphrase is needed to decrypt the disks before they can be accessed.