When `update-grub` is run, **GRUB 2 will scan for kernels and operating systems** on the machine and generate the corresponding menu entries on the `/boot/grub/grub.cfg` file.

New entries can be manually added to the script files within the `/etc/grub.d` directory.

These files should be **executable**, and are **processed in numerical order by `update-grub`.**
Therefore `05_debian_theme` is processed before `10_linux` and so on.

Custom menu entries are usually added to the `40_custom` file.

The basic syntax for a **menu entry** is shown below:

```Bash
menuentry "Default OS" {
    set root=(hd0,1)
    linux /vmlinuz root=/dev/sda1 ro quiet splash
    initrd /initrd.img
}
```

The first line always starts with `menuentry` and ends with `{`. The text between quotes will be shown as the **entry label** on the GRUB 2 boot menu.

## root file system
The set **root parameter** defines the disk and partition **where the root file system for the operating system is located**. So here it says at the `hd0` disk the partition `1`.

Please note that **on GRUB 2 disks are numbered from zero,** so `hd0` is the **first disk** (`sda` under Linux), `hd1` the second, and so on. **Partitions, however, are numbered starting from one**. In the example above the root file system is located at the first disk (`hd0`), first partition (`,1`), or `sda1`.

**Disks -> From `0`**
**Partitions -> From `1`**

Instead of directly specifying the device and partition you can also have GRUB 2 search for a **file system** with a **specific label** or **UUID (Universally Unique Identifier)**.

For that, use the parameter search `--set=root` followed by the `--label` parameter and **file system label** to search for, 
or `--fs-uuid` followed by the **UUID of the file system**.

**You can find the UUID of a filesystem with the command below:**

```Bash
$ ls -l /dev/disk/by-uuid/

total 0
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 nov  4 08:40 3e0b34e2-949c-43f2-90b0-25454ac1595d -> ../../sda5
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 nov  4 08:40 428e35ee-5ad5-4dcb-adca-539aba6c2d84 -> ../../sda6
lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 10 nov  5 19:10 56C11DCC5D2E1334 -> ../../sdb1
```

In the example above, the UUID for `/dev/sda1` is `ae71b214-0aec-48e8-80b2-090b6986b625`. Should you wish to set it as the root device for GRUB 2, the command would be search `--set=root --fs-uuid ae71b214-0aec-48e8-80b2-090b6986b625`.

When using the `search` command it is common to add the `--no-floppy` parameter so **GRUB will not waste time searching on floppy disks**.

## linux line
The linux line indicates **where the kernel for the operating system is located** (in this case, the `vmlinuz` file at the **root of the file system**). After that, you can pass command line parameters to the kernel.

In the example above we specified the **root partition (root=/dev/sda1)** and passed **three kernel parameters**: the root partition should be mounted **read-only (ro)**, **most of the log messages should
be disabled (quiet)** and **a splash screen should be shown (splash)**.

The `initrd` line indicates where the **initial RAM disk** is located. In the example above the file is `initrd.img`, located at the root of the file system.


Most Linux distributions do not actually put the **kernel** and **initrd** at the **root directory of the root file system**. Instead, these are links to the actual files inside the `/boot` directory or partition.

The last line of a menu entry should contain only the character `}`.

