a package management system, including a set of tools, that greatly simplifies package **installation**, **upgrade**, **removal** and **management**. APT provides features like **advanced search capabilities** and **automatic dependency resolution**.

APT is not a “substitute” for dpkg. You may think of it as a “**front end**”, **streamlining operations and filling gaps in dpkg functionality**, like **dependency resolution**.

APT works in concert with **software repositories** which contain the packages available to install. Such repositories may be a **local** or **remote server**, or (less common) even a CD-ROM disc.


Linux distributions, such as Debian and Ubuntu, **maintain their own repositories**, and other repositories may be maintained by **developers** or **user groups** to provide software not available from the main distribution repositories.

There are many utilities that interact with APT, the main ones being:

`apt-get`:
	used to **download**, **install**, **upgrade** or **remove** packages from the system.
	
`apt-cache`:
	used to perform operations, like **searches**, in the **package index**.

`apt-file`:
	used for **searching for files** inside packages.

There is also a “friendlier” utility named simply `apt`, combining the most used options of **apt-get** and **apt-cache** in one utility. Many of the commands for apt are the same as the ones for `apt-get`, so they are in many cases **interchangeable**. However, since apt may not be installed on a system, it is recommended to learn how to use apt-get and apt-cache.

