
APT uses a list of sources to know where to get packages from. This list is stored in the file `sources.list`, located inside the `/etc/apt` directory.

A typical line inside `sources.list` looks like this:

`deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/ disco main restricted universe multiverse`

`Archive type`:
	A repository may contain packages with ready-to-run software (**binary packages**, type `deb`) or with the **source code** to this software (**source packages**, type `deb-src`).

`URL`:
	The URL for the repo.

`Distribution`:
	The name (or codename) for the **distribution** for which packages are provided. **One repository may host packages for multiple distributions**.

`Components`:
	Each component represents **a set of packages**. These components may be different on different Linux distributions.

## Components 

### Ubuntu
1. `main`: **Officially supported**, **Open-source**
2. `restricted`: **Officially supported**, **Closed-source** (like graphic card's driver)
3. `universe`: Contains **community maintained Open-source** software.
4. `multiverse`: Officially unsupported, Closed-source (software that is restricted by copyright or legal issues)

### Debian
1. `main`: **compliant with the Debian Free Software Guidelines (DFSG)**. considered to be part of the Debian distribution.
2. `contrib`: **DFSG-compliant** packages **BUT** depend on other packages that are not in `main`.
3. `non-free`: **not** compliant with the DFSG.
4. `security`: contains security updates.
5. `backports`: contains more **recent versions** of packages that are in main. The development cycle of the **stable versions of Debian** is quite long (around **two years**), and this ensures that users can get the **most up-to date packages** without having to modify the main core repository.

## Adding new repo

Add the corresponding line (usually provided by the repository maintainer) to the end of `sources.list`, save the file and reload the package index with `apt-get update`.

Inside The `/etc/apt/sources.list.d` Directory you can add files with **additional repositories** to be used by APT, without the need to modify the main `/etc/apt/sources.list` file.


