provide **predefined sets of system states**, called **runlevels**, and their corresponding service **script files** to be executed.

**Run levels:**
1. **0:** Shutdown - Halt
2. **1 OR S:** Single user mode, without network and other non-essential capabilities (maintenance mode).
3. **2, 3 OR 4:** Multi-user mode. Users can log in by console or network. Runlevels 2 and 4 are not often used.
4. **5:** Multi-user mode. It is equivalent to **3**, plus the **graphical mode login**.
5. **6:** System restart

The program responsible for **managing runlevels** and **associated daemons/resources** is `/sbin/init`.


During system initialization, the init program identifies the requested runlevel, defined by a kernel parameter or in the `/etc/inittab` file, and loads the associated scripts listed there for the given runlevel. (Deprecated)
Every runlevel may have many associated service files, usually scripts in the `/etc/init.d/` directory.

**The syntax of the `/etc/inittab` file uses this format:**
```
id:runlevels:action:process
```

**id:** Generic name up to four characters used to identify the entry.
**runlevels:** Is a list of runlevel numbers for which a specified action should be executed.
**action:** How `init` will execute the `process` indicated by the term process.

**The available actions are:**
1. **boot:** The process will be executed during system initialization. The field `runlevels` is ignored.
2. **bootwait:** The process will be executed during system initialization and init will wait until it finishes to continue. The field runlevels is ignored.
3. **sysinit:** The process will be executed after system initialization, regardless of runlevel. The field runlevels is ignored.
4. **wait:** The process will be executed for the given runlevels and init will wait until it finishes to continue.
5. **respawn:** The process will be restarted if it is terminated.
6. **ctrlaltdel:** The process will be executed when the init process receives the SIGINT signal, triggered when the key sequence of `Ctrl + Alt + Del` is pressed.

The default runlevel — the one that will be chosen if no other is given as a kernel parameter — is also defined in `/etc/inittab`, in the entry `id:x:initdefault`. The `x` is **the number of the default runlevel**. This number **should never be 0 or 6**, given that it would cause the system to shutdown or restart as soon as it finishes the boot process.

**A typical `/etc/inittab` file is shown below:**
```Bash
# Default runlevel
id:3:initdefault:

# Configuration script executed during boot
si::sysinit:/etc/init.d/rcS

# Action taken on runlevel S (single user)
~:S:wait:/sbin/sulogin

# Configuration for each execution level
l0:0:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 0
l1:1:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 1
l2:2:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 2
l3:3:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 3
l4:4:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 4
l5:5:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 5
l6:6:wait:/etc/init.d/rc 6

# Action taken upon ctrl+alt+del keystroke
ca::ctrlaltdel:/sbin/shutdown -r now

# Enable consoles for runlevels 2 and 3
1:23:respawn:/sbin/getty tty1 VC linux
2:23:respawn:/sbin/getty tty2 VC linux
3:23:respawn:/sbin/getty tty3 VC linux
4:23:respawn:/sbin/getty tty4 VC linux

# For runlevel 3, also enable serial
# terminals ttyS0 and ttyS1 (modem) consoles
S0:3:respawn:/sbin/getty -L 9600 ttyS0 vt320
S1:3:respawn:/sbin/mgetty -x0 -D ttyS1
```

**The `telinit q` command should be executed every time after the `/etc/inittab` file is modified.** (arg `q` tells it to reload its configuration)

**Such a step is important to avoid a system halt due to an incorrect configuration in `/etc/inittab`.**

The scripts used by init to setup each runlevel are stored in the directory `/etc/init.d/`.

Every runlevel has an **associated directory** in `/etc/`, named `/etc/rc0.d/`, `/etc/rc1.d/`, `/etc/rc2.d/`, etc. with the scripts that should be executed when the corresponding runlevel starts. 

**As the same script can be used by different runlevels, the files in those directories are just symbolic links to the actual scripts in `/etc/init.d/`.**


A link’s filename starting with letter **K** determines that the service will be killed when entering the runlevel (kill).

Starting with letter **S**, the service will be started when entering the runlevel (start).

The directory /etc/rc1.d/, for example, will have many links to network scripts beginning with letter **K**, **considering that the runlevel 1 is the single user runlevel, without network connectivity**.


The command `runlevel` shows the **current runlevel** for the system. The runlevel command **shows two values**, the **first is the previous runlevel** and the **second is the current runlevel**:
```Bash
$ runlevel
N 3
```
The letter **N** in the output shows that the runlevel **has not changed since last boot**.

The command `telinit` can also be used to alternate between runlevels. For
example, commands `telinit 1`, `telinit s` or `telinit S` will change the system to **runlevel 1.**