most widely used set of tools to **manage system resources and services**.

referred to as **units** by systemd.

**A unit consists of:**
1. a name 
2. a type  
3. a corresponding configuration file

e.g.:
The unit for a httpd server process (like the Apache web server) will be `httpd.service`

##### seven distinct types of systemd units
1. **service:** The most common unit type, for active system resources that can be **initiated**, **interrupted** and **reloaded**.

2. **socket:** The socket unit type can be a **filesystem socket** or **a network socket**. All socket units **have a corresponding service unit**, loaded **when the socket receives a request**.

3. **device:** A device unit is associated with a hardware device identified by the kernel. **A device will only be taken as a systemd unit if a udev rule for this purpose exists.** A device unit can be used to **resolve configuration dependencies** when certain hardware is detected, given that **properties from the udev rule** can be used **as parameters for the device unit**.

4. **mount:** A mount unit is a mount point definition in the filesystem, similar to an entry in `/etc/fstab`
5. **automount:** is also a mount point definition in the filesystem, but mounted automatically.
6. **target:** A target unit is a grouping of other units, managed as a single unit.
7. **snapshot:** A snapshot unit is a saved state of the systemd manager (not available on every Linux distribution).

The main command for controlling systemd units is `systemctl`. Command `systemctl` is used to execute all tasks regarding unit **activation**, **deactivation**, **execution**, **interruption**, **monitoring**, etc.

`systemctl start unit.service`
Starts unit.
`systemctl stop unit.service`
Stops unit.
`systemctl restart unit.service`
Restarts unit.
`systemctl status unit.service`
Shows the state of unit, including if it is running or not.
`systemctl is-active unit.service`
Shows active if unit is running or inactive otherwise.
`systemctl enable unit.service`
Enables unit, that is, unit will load during system initialization.
`systemctl disable unit.service`
unit will not start with the system.

`systemctl is-enabled unit.service`
Verifies if unit starts with the system. The **answer is stored in the variable `$?`**. 

The **value `0` indicates that unit starts with the system** and the **value `1` indicates that unit does not starts with the system**.

If no other units with the same name exist in the system, then the suffix after the dot can be dropped. If, for example, there is only one httpd unit of type service, then only httpd is enough as the unit parameter for `systemctl`.

The `systemctl` command can also control system targets. The `multi-user.target` unit, for example, combines all units required by the `multi-user` system environment. It is similar to the **runlevel number 3** in a system utilizing SysV.

Command `systemctl isolate` alternates between **different targets**. So, to **manually alternate to target multi-user**:
`systemctl isolate multi-user.target`

There are corresponding targets to SysV runlevels, starting with `runlevelO.target` up to `runlevel6.target`

However, systemd does not use the `/etc/inittab` file.

To change the default system target, the option `systemd.unit` can be added to the **kernel parameters list**.

to use `multi-user.target` as the standard target, the kernel parameter should be `systemd.unit=multi-user.target`. All kernel parameters can be made persistent by changing the bootloader configuration. 
(`/etc/default/grub` => `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX` => `grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`)

Another way to **change the default target** is to modify the symbolic link `/etc/systemd/system/default.target` so it **points to the desired target**.

The redefinition of the link can be done with the `systemctl` command by itself:
`systemctl set-default multi-user.target`

Likewise, you can determine what your **system’s default boot target** is with the following command:
```Bash
$ systemctl get-default
graphical.target
```

The configuration files associated with every unit can be found in the `/lib/systemd/system/` directory.

The command `systemctl list-unit-files` **lists all available units** and shows if they are enabled to start when the system boots.



The option `--type` will select only the units for a given type, as in
`systemctl list-unit-files --type=service`
and 
`systemctl list-unit-files --type=target`

**Active units** or units **that have been active during the current system session** can be listed with command `systemctl list-units`.

**systemd is also responsible for triggering and responding to power related events.**

The `systemctl suspend` command will put the system in **low power mode**, keeping current data in memory.

`systemctl reboot`: restart the machine
`systemctl poweroff`:  turn off the machine

Command `systemctl hibernate` will *copy all memory data to disk*, so the current state of the system can be recovered *after powering it off*.

The actions associated with such events are defined in the file `/etc/systemd/logind.conf` or in separate files inside the directory
`/etc/systemd/logind.conf.d/`.

However, this systemd feature can only be used *when there is
no other power manager running in the system*, like the **acpid daemon**. 

**acpid daemon:** is the *main power manager* for Linux and allows finer adjustments to the actions following power related events, like *closing the laptop lid*, *low battery* or *battery charging levels*.


