
The initialization scripts used by Upstart are located in the directory `/etc/init/`.

System services can be listed with command `initctl list`, which also shows the *current state* of the services and, if available, *their PID number*.

```Bash
$ initctl list

avahi-cups-reload stop/waiting
avahi-daemon start/running, process 1123
mountall-net stop/waiting
mountnfs-bootclean.sh start/running
nmbd start/running, process 3085
passwd stop/waiting
rc stop/waiting
rsyslog start/running, process 1095
tty4 start/running, process 1761
udev start/running, process 1073
upstart-udev-bridge start/running, process 1066
console-setup stop/waiting
irqbalance start/running, process 1842
plymouth-log stop/waiting
smbd start/running, process 1457
tty5 start/running, process 1764
failsafe stop/waiting
```

Every Upstart action has *its own independent command*. For example,
command start can be used to initiate a sixth virtual terminal:
```Bash
$ start tty6
```

And the interruption of a service is done with the command stop:
```Bash
$ stop tty6
```

Upstart does not use the `/etc/inittab` file to define runlevels, but the legacy commands `runlevel` and `telinit` can still be used to verify and alternate between runlevels.

**Ubuntu has stopped using Upstart since 2015 when it switched
from Upstart to systemd.**

A very traditional command used to shutdown or restart the system is unsurprisingly called `shutdown`. The shutdown command **adds extra functions to the power off process**: it automatically **notifies all logged-in users** with a warning message in their shell sessions and **new logins are prevented**.

Command `shutdown` acts as an **intermediary to SysV or systemd** procedures, that is, **it executes the requested action by calling the corresponding action in the services manager adopted by the system**.

After shutdown is executed, all processes receive the **SIGTERM** signal, followed by the **SIGKILL** signal, then the system *shuts down* or *changes its runlevel*.

By default, when neither options `-h` or `-r` are used, the system alternates to runlevel 1, that is, the single user mode.

the command should be executed with the following syntax:
```Bash
$ shutdown [option] time [message]
```
**hh:mm**
	This format specifies the execution time as hour and minutes.

**+m**
	This format specifies how many minutes to wait before execution.

**now or +0**
	This format determines immediate execution.

The message parameter is the **warning text** sent to all terminal sessions of **logged-in users**.


The SysV implementation allows for the limiting of users that will be able to restart the machine by pressing `Ctrl + Alt + Del`.

This is possible by placing option `-a` for the shutdown command present at the line regarding **ctrlaltdel** in the `/etc/inittab` file.

By doing this, only users whose usernames are in the `/etc/shutdown.allow` file will be able to *restart* the system with the **Ctrl \+ Alt \+ Del keystroke combination**.

Some Linux distributions will link `poweroff` and `reboot` to `systemctl` as
individual commands.


Not all maintenance activities require the system to be turned off or restarted. However, when it is necessary to change the system’s state to single-user mode, it is important to warn logged-in users so that they are not harmed by an **abrupt termination** of their activities.


the `wall` command is able to **send a message to terminal sessions of all logged-in users**.
