
# BIOS or UEFI
Kernel loaded by a bootloader (which the bootloader will be loaded by a pre-installed firmware such as **BIOS** or **UEFI**)

They are (BIOS or UEFI) stored in a **non-volatile** memory chip.

BIOS || UEFI => Firmware

### BIOS
**First 440 bytes of the booting device:** first stage of the
bootloader (also called bootstrap)
\+ 72 bytes = additional info about **booting** & **partitioning**.
\+ 512 byes of MBR = contains the **partition table**


**Steps to boot a system equipped with BIOS:**
1. POST (power-on self-test)
2. BIOS Activates basic components to load the system, e.g. video output, keyboard, storage media
3. BIOS loads the first stage of the bootloader from the MBR (440 bytes)
4. First stage calls the second stage which is **responsible for presenting boot options** and **loading the kernel**.

The UEFI, short for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface.

**Main Differences between BIOS & UEFI:**
1. BIOS uses a text-based interface, while UEFI uses a graphical interface.
2. BIOS boots from the Master Boot Record (MBR), while UEFI boots from the EFI System Partition (ESP).
3. BIOS can only boot from drives up to 2.2 TB, while UEFI has no such limitation.
4. UEFI includes Secure Boot (only allows the execution of
signed EFI applications)
5. UEFI can identify partitions and read many filesystems
found in them.
6. UEFI does not rely on the MBR

The standard compatible filesystems for EFI applications (for UEFI to load) are **FAT12, FAT16, FAT32** for block devices and **ISO-9660** for optical media.

**UEFI allows much more tools than those possible with BIOS.**

The partition containing the EFI applications is called the EFI System Partition or just ESP (This partition must not be shared with other system filesystems)

The EFI directory in the ESP partition contains the applications pointed to by the entries saved in the NVRAM. (when you install certain software or drivers on your computer, they may modify the NVRAM to contain information about how to boot that software or driver when your computer starts up. The actual files needed for booting are then stored in the EFI directory on the ESP partition.)



**Steps to boot a system equipped with UEFI:**
1. POST (power-on self-test)
2. UEFI activates the basic components to load the system e.g. video output, keyboard, storage media
3. UEFI’s firmware reads the definitions stored in NVRAM to **execute the pre-defined EFI application stored in the ESP partition’s filesystem**. Usually, the pre-defined EFI application is a **bootloader**.
4.  If the pre-defined EFI application is a bootloader, it will load the kernel to start the operating system.

