# The Bootloader

The **most popular bootloader** for Linux in the **x86** architecture is **GRUB** (Grand Unified Bootloader).

Displays a list of OSs available to boot after it gets called by BIOS or by UEFI.

**The list can be invoked by:**
BIOS: `Shift`
UEFI: `Esc`

From the GRUB menu it is possible to choose **which one of the installed kernels** should be loaded and to **pass new parameters** to it. 

**Some Kernel options:**
1. **acpi:** ACPI support. `acpi=off` will disable support for ACPI.
2. **init:** Sets an alternative system initiator. e.g. `init=/bin/bash` means a shell session will start just after the kernel boot process.
3. **systemd.unit:** Sets the systemd target to be activated. e.g. `systemd.unit=graphical.target`. also accepts the numerical runlevels as defined for SysV. e.g. `1` or `S` (for single user mode)
4. **mem:** Sets the amount of available RAM for the system. e.g. `mem=512M`
5. **maxcpus:** Limits the number of processors. e.g. `0` turns off the support for multi-processor (same as `nosmp`)
6. **quiet:** Hides most boot messages.
7. **vga:** Selects a video mode. e.g. `vga=ask` will show a list of the available modes to choose from.
8. **root:** Sets the root partition. e.g. `root=/dev/sda3`
9. **rootflags:** Mount options for the root filesystem.
10. **ro:** makes the initial mount of the root filesystem read-only.
11. **rw:** Allows writing in the root filesystem during initial mount.

**To make kernel parameters persistent it must be added to `/etc/default/grub` in the line `GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX`**

A new configuration file for the bootloader must be generated every time `/etc/default/grub` changes, which is accomplished by the command `grub-mkconfig -o /boot/grub/grub.cfg`.

**Show current kernel parameters used for loading the current session: `cat /proc/cmdline`**

