Errors may occur during the boot process, but they may not be so critical to completely halt the operating system. Notwithstanding, these errors may compromise the expected behavior of the system.

**All errors result in messages that can be used for future investigations.**

They contain valuable information about when and how the error occurred.

Even when no error messages are generated, the information collected during the boot process can be useful for **tuning** and **configuration purposes**.

**kernel ring buffer:** The memory space where the kernel stores its **messages**, including the **boot messages**. They will be kept even when they are not
displayed during the initialization process.

the kernel ring buffer loses all messages **when the system is turned off** or by **executing the command** `dmesg --clear`.

In systems based on systemd, command `journalctl` will show the initialization messages with options `-b`, `--boot`, `-k` or `--dmesg`.

Command `journalctl --list-boots` shows a list of **boot
numbers** relative to the current boot, **their identification hash** and the **timestamps** of the **first** and **last** corresponding messages.

```Bash
$ journalctl --list-boots
 -4 9e5b3eb4952845208b841ad4dbefa1a6 Thu 2019-10-03 13:39:23 -03—Thu 2019-10-03 13:40:30 -03
 -3 9e3d79955535430aa43baa17758f40fa Thu 2019-10-03 13:41:15 -03—Thu 2019-10-03 14:56:19 -03
 -2 17672d8851694e6c9bb102df7355452c Thu 2019-10-03 14:56:57 -03—Thu 2019-10-03 19:27:16 -03
 -1 55c0d9439bfb4e85a20a62776d0dbb4d Thu 2019-10-03 19:27:53 -03—Fri 2019-10-04 00:28:47 -03
  0 08fbbebd9f964a74b8a02bb27b200622 Fri 2019-10-04 00:31:01 -03—Fri 2019-10-04 10:17:01 -03
```

**Previous initialization logs are also kept in systems based on systemd**, so messages from prior operating system sessions can still be inspected. If options `-b 0` or `--boot=0` are provided, then messages for the **current boot** will be shown.

Initialization and other messages issued by the operating system are stored in files inside the directory `/var/log/`.


If a critical error happens and the operating system is unable to continue
the initialization process after loading the kernel and the initramfs, an **alternative boot medium** could be used to start the system and to access the corresponding filesystem. Then, the files under `/var/log/` can be searched for possible reasons causing the interruption of the boot process.

Options `-D` or `--directory` of command journalctl can be used to read log messages in directories other than `/var/log/journal/`, which is the default location for systemd log messages. **As systemd’s log messages are not stored in raw text**, command journalctl is **required** to read them.
